---
navigation:
  title: "Fortron Capacitor"
  icon: "mffs:fortron_capacitor"
  parent: mffs:machines.md
item_ids:
  - mffs:fortron_capacitor
---

# Fortron Capacitor

<ItemImage id="mffs:fortron_capacitor" />

The <Color id="blue">Fortron Capacitor</Color> serves as an energy storage and management device for MFFS machines. It's designed to collect Fortron generated by [Coercion Deriver](./coercion_deriver.md)s and transfer it to other machines that need [Fortron](../getting_started/fortron.md) to operate, essentially acting as a "hub".

Crafting the <Color id="blue">Fortron Capacitor</Color>.

<Recipe id="mffs:fortron_capacitor" />

## Usage

Place the Capacitor and set which frequency it should use. By default, Capacitors use frequency number 0, but this can be changed either by:
- Right-clicking the Capacitor and entering the desired frequency number into its GUI
- Shift-right-clicking the Capacitor while holding a [Frequency Card](../tools/frequency_card.md).

Activate the Fortron Capacitor by supplying it with a Redstone signal. Once activated, the Capacitor will change from red to blue and begin transferring [Fortron](../getting_started/fortron.md) between other MFFS devices that use the same frequency and are within range (default 15 blocks).

## Upgradability

A Fortron Capacitor may be augmented with various modules to enhance its capabilities:
- [<Color id="dark_purple">Scale Module</Color>](../upgrade_modules/scale_module.md): Enables the Capacitor to link with other MFFS machines over a larger distance. Each module increases the range by 1 block from the default of 15 blocks.
- [<Color id="dark_purple">Speed Module</Color>](../upgrade_modules/speed_module.md): Allows the Capacitor to transfer [Fortron](../getting_started/fortron.md) to and from machines more quickly. Each module increases the transfer rate by 50 FE.


- [<Color id="dark_purple">Capacity Module</Color>](../upgrade_modules/capacity_module.md): Increases the amount of [Fortron](../getting_started/fortron.md) the Capacitor is able to store.

